docs/source/how-to/quickstart.rst, before:

.. include:: ../../extras.rst.txt
.. highlight:: rst
.. index:: how-to-quickstart ; Index


.. _how-to-quickstart:

=================
Tag-Me Quickstart
=================

**Minimum Requirements**

* Python version 3.10 or greater.
* Django 4.0 or greater.


Installation
============

**Install the 'django-tag-me' package using pip:**

.. code-block:: bash

   pip install django-tag-me

|


**Add `tag-me` to your installed apps.**

|

.. code-block:: python

    INSTALLED_APPS = [
    "tag_me",
    ]

|



Once installed, add the models and static files to your Django project:


|

.. code-block:: bash

    python3 manage.py collectstatic

    python3 manage.py makemigrations

    python3 manage.py migrate

|

**After successful migration, you should see output similar to the following in your console:**

|

.. code-block:: bash

        INFO    2024-04-03 07:40:47,367 INFO    MainThread       helpers.py:61
                 (/venv/lib/python3.12/site-packages/tag_me/utils/helpers.py :
                 61) tag_me.utils.helpers.update_models_with_tagged_fields_table:    Updated Your Model Name :
                 your field name
        INFO    2024-04-03 07:40:47,369 INFO    MainThread        models.py:134
                 (/venv/lib/python3.12/site-packages/tag_me/models.py : 134)
                 tag_me.models.check_field_sync_list_lengths: You have no field tags listed that require
                 synchronising

    Updating Tagged Models Table.
    SUCCESS: Tagged Models Table, and Synchronised Fields updated.

|

**Add Alpine.js and 'tag-me' scripts to your base.html**

*Alpine.js is a lightweight JavaScript framework that adds reactivity to your HTML. It's required for the 'tag-me' functionality.*

.. note::

   The CDN for the alpine components below may not be the latest. Please see https://alpinejs.dev/essentials/installation
   and https://alpinejs.dev/plugins/focus for the latest versions.

.. important::

   Ensure the Alpine Focus script is included before Alpine's core JS file, as per the Alpine Focus documentation!

|

.. code-block:: html

   <head>
   <script defer src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/@alpinejs/focus@3.x.x/dist/cdn.min.js"></script>

   <script defer src="https://unpkg.com/alpinejs@3.13.1/dist/cdn.min.js"></script>

   <script src="{% static 'tag_me/tag_me_multi_select.js' %}"></script>
   </head>

|

Usage
=====

|

**Add a 'tag-me' tag to your Django model.**

|

Tagging allows you to associate flexible keywords or categories with your model instance fields.  It is possible to have more than one model field with tagging functionality.

|

.. tip::

   While not required, adding a user-friendly `verbose_name` will improve the users experience. `verbose_name` is used throughout the 'tag-me' package as an identifier.

    If you dont provide a `verbose_name`, the Django default will be used.

|

.. code-block:: python

   from django.db import models
   from tag_me.db.models.fields import TagMeCharField

   class MyModel(models.Model)

       my_tagged_field = TagMeCharField(
           max_length=255,
           null=True,
           blank=True,
           verbose_name="My Tagged Field",  # User-friendly label
           help_text= "How to use tag-me TagMeCharField.",
           )


|

**Forms**

|

.. important::

   Use of the custom 'tag-me' form mixin is required for the tags widget to function correctly.

See below for an example.

|

.. code-block:: python

   from django import forms
   from tag_me.db.forms.mixins import TagMeModelFormMixin
   from tag_me.widgets import TagMeSelectMultipleWidget
   from .models import MyModel

   class MyModelForm(TagMeModelFormMixin, forms.ModelForm):

       class Meta:
           model = MyModel
           fields = ['my_tagged_field']

       widgets = {
            "my_tagged_field": TagMeSelectMultipleWidget(),
        }

|

**Views**

|

.. important::

    Use of the custom 'tag-me' view mixin is required for the tags widget to function correctly.

See below for an example.

|

.. code-block:: python

    from django.views.generic import CreateView
    from tag_me.db.mixins import TagMeViewMixin
    from .forms import MyModelForm
    from .models import MyModel

    class MyModelCreateView(TagMeViewMixin, CreateView)
        model = MyModel
        form_class = MyModelForm
        etc ...

|


Creating Tags
=============

|

Currently, users can only create tags through the Django administration panel. Functionality for regular users to create tags is planned for future development.

|

Choices
-------

|

You may use the model choices machinery to add a fixed set of tags.

|

.. warning::

    Using the model choices mechanism to define tags bypasses Django's built-in choices validation. This method provides a simple way to add fixed tags, and is a convenience for you, the developer.

    See example below.

|

.. code-block:: python

    from django.db import models
    from django.utils.translation import pgettext_lazy as _

    class MyModel(models.Model)

        class ApprovalStatus(models.TextChoices):
            """Approval Status choices."""

            APPROVED = "APPROVED", _(
                "Status",
                "Approved",
            )
            NOT_REVIEWED = "NOT_REVIEWED", _(
                "Status",
                "Not Reviewed",
            )
            REJECTED = "REJECTED", _(
                "Status",
                "Rejected",
            )

        my_tagged_field = TagMeCharField(
            max_length=255,
            choices=ApprovalStatus.choices,
            default=ApprovalStatus.NOT_REVIEWED,
            null=True,
            blank=True,
            verbose_name="My Tagged Field",
            help_text= "How to use tag-me TagMeCharField with choices.",
            )

|

.. important::

    During initialization, `TagMeCharField` internally converts your `choices` into a tag representation for seamless integration.

Commit message:

feat(ui): Improve ux and small screen appearance #184 (#186)
* docs(how): Add new and update existing #184

* feat(widget): Improve custom template handling #185

Renamed setting from theme to template to reflect its true purpose.
Make use of get_template rather than assigning the template to
self.template_name. Improves robustness.

closes #185

* chore(conf): Add help and mgmt default settings #184

The help and management tools require urls that should be user
configurable. These are added to the bottom of the searchbar menu
so that if the dev desires, they can add custom urls. By default these
are empty so the section for display of the urls in the menu will be
hidden.

* chore(context): Add help and mgmt extracted to context #184

closes #184

* docs(how-to): Add conf for help & mgmt urls #184

closes #184

* feat(ui): Improve ux and small screen appearance #184

closes #184

docs/source/how-to/quickstart.rst, after:

.. index:: how-to-quickstart ; Index


.. _how-to-quickstart:

=================
Tag-Me Quickstart
=================

**Minimum Requirements**

* Python version 3.10 or greater.
* Django 4.0 or greater.


Installation
============

**Install the 'django-tag-me' package using pip:**

.. code-block:: bash

   pip install django-tag-me

|


**Add `tag-me` to your installed apps.**

|

.. code-block:: python

    INSTALLED_APPS = [
    "tag_me",
    ]

|



Once installed, add the models and static files to your Django project:


|

.. code-block:: bash



    python3 manage.py makemigrations

    python3 manage.py migrate

|

**After successful migration, you should see output similar to the following in your console:**

|

.. code-block:: bash

        INFO    2024-04-03 07:40:47,367 INFO    MainThread       helpers.py:61
                 (/venv/lib/python3.12/site-packages/tag_me/utils/helpers.py :
                 61) tag_me.utils.helpers.update_models_with_tagged_fields_table:    Updated Your Model Name :
                 your field name
        INFO    2024-04-03 07:40:47,369 INFO    MainThread        models.py:134
                 (/venv/lib/python3.12/site-packages/tag_me/models.py : 134)
                 tag_me.models.check_field_sync_list_lengths: You have no field tags listed that require
                 synchronising

    Updating Tagged Models Table.
    SUCCESS: Tagged Models Table, and Synchronised Fields updated.

|

**Add Alpine.js and 'tag-me' scripts to your base.html**

*Alpine.js is a lightweight JavaScript framework that adds reactivity to your HTML. It's required for the 'tag-me' functionality.*

.. note::

   The CDN for the alpine components below may not be the latest. Please see https://alpinejs.dev/essentials/installation
   and https://alpinejs.dev/plugins/focus for the latest versions.

.. important::

   Ensure the Alpine Focus script is included before Alpine's core JS file, as per the Alpine Focus documentation!

|

.. code-block:: html

   <head>
   <script defer src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/@alpinejs/focus@3.x.x/dist/cdn.min.js"></script>

   <script defer src="https://unpkg.com/alpinejs@3.13.1/dist/cdn.min.js"></script>

   <script src="{% static 'tag_me/tag_me_multi_select.js' %}"></script>
   </head>

|

Usage
=====

|

**Add a 'tag-me' tag to your Django model.**

|

Tagging allows you to associate flexible keywords or categories with your model instance fields.  It is possible to have more than one model field with tagging functionality.

|

.. tip::

   While not required, adding a user-friendly `verbose_name` will improve the users experience. `verbose_name` is used throughout the 'tag-me' package as an identifier.

    If you dont provide a `verbose_name`, the Django default will be used.

|

.. code-block:: python

   from django.db import models
   from tag_me.db.models.fields import TagMeCharField

   class MyModel(models.Model)

       my_tagged_field = TagMeCharField(
           max_length=255,
           null=True,
           blank=True,
           verbose_name="My Tagged Field",  # User-friendly label
           help_text= "How to use tag-me TagMeCharField.",
           )


|

**Forms**

|

.. important::

   Use of the custom 'tag-me' form mixin is required for the tags widget to function correctly.

See below for an example.

|

.. code-block:: python

   from django import forms
   from tag_me.db.forms.mixins import TagMeModelFormMixin
   from tag_me.widgets import TagMeSelectMultipleWidget
   from .models import MyModel

   class MyModelForm(TagMeModelFormMixin, forms.ModelForm):

       class Meta:
           model = MyModel
           fields = ['my_tagged_field']

       widgets = {
            "my_tagged_field": TagMeSelectMultipleWidget(),
        }

|

**Views**

|

.. important::

    Use of the custom 'tag-me' view mixin is required for the tags widget to function correctly.

See below for an example.

|

.. code-block:: python

    from django.views.generic import CreateView
    from tag_me.db.mixins import TagMeViewMixin
    from .forms import MyModelForm
    from .models import MyModel

    class MyModelCreateView(TagMeViewMixin, CreateView)
        model = MyModel
        form_class = MyModelForm
        etc ...

|


Creating Tags
=============

|

Using the widget
----------------

|

.. image:: ../imgs/tag_me_search.png

|

.. image:: ../imgs/tag_me_search_add_tag.png

|

.. image:: ../imgs/tag_me_search_added_tag.png


|

Choices
-------

|

You may use the model choices machinery to add a fixed set of tags.

|

.. warning::

    Using the model choices mechanism to define tags bypasses Django's built-in choices validation. This method provides a simple way to add fixed tags, and is a convenience for you, the developer.

    See example below.

|

.. code-block:: python

    from django.db import models
    from django.utils.translation import pgettext_lazy as _

    class MyModel(models.Model)

        class ApprovalStatus(models.TextChoices):
            """Approval Status choices."""

            APPROVED = "APPROVED", _(
                "Status",
                "Approved",
            )
            NOT_REVIEWED = "NOT_REVIEWED", _(
                "Status",
                "Not Reviewed",
            )
            REJECTED = "REJECTED", _(
                "Status",
                "Rejected",
            )

        my_tagged_field = TagMeCharField(
            max_length=255,
            choices=ApprovalStatus.choices,
            default=ApprovalStatus.NOT_REVIEWED,
            null=True,
            blank=True,
            verbose_name="My Tagged Field",
            help_text= "How to use tag-me TagMeCharField with choices.",
            )

|

.. important::

    During initialization, `TagMeCharField` internally converts your `choices` into a tag representation for seamless integration.

    Tags added using this method are automatically designated as ``system`` tags and users are unable to add to or modify them.

|

Undocumented Method
-------------------

There is a tag management tool for both the system and user tags.  ``Urls`` ``Views`` and ``Bad Templates`` exist.

The templates largely work but are more for example purposes.  This area needs more work and to be documented.

Please take a look at the code and Im pretty sure you will figure it out fairly quickly.
